To make Carbone's bolognese for six, you'll need: 

½ pound ground beef 
½ pound ground pork or veal
½ pound Italian sausage (out of casing) 
Carbone told me that he likes to add Italian sausage for his spin on the classic dish to give his bolognese a "big pop of added flavor." 

1 cup onion (diced) 
½ cup celery (diced) 
½ cup carrot (diced) 
5 cloves garlic (chopped) 
1 tablespoon tomato paste 
1 ½ jars Carbone marinara sauce 
¾ cup red wine
½ cup chicken stock 
½ cup milk 
1 dried bay leaf 
1 ½ tablespoons salt 
½ tablespoon thyme (chopped) 
If you don't have Carbone's sauce on hand, you can always opt for a similar marinara or just make your own. His sauce is made with Italian tomatoes (whole peeled tomatoes, tomato purée, sea salt, basil), along with onions, olive oil, sea salt, garlic, basil, crushed red pepper flakes, and oregano. 


Before I started cooking, I prepped my veggies.
Chopped celery, carrots, and onions for Carbone Bolognese
First I diced my carrots, celery, and onion. Anneta Konstantinides/Insider
I diced my onion, carrots, and celery and set them aside.

Then I threw some olive oil into a Dutch oven and added the ground beef.
Ground beef in Dutch oven for Carbone Bolognese
I seared my ground beef for about three minutes. Anneta Konstantinides/Insider
I seared the ground beef over high heat for about three minutes, then drained it in my colander over a large bowl. 

I separately seared the pork, followed by the sausage, for around the same amount of time.
Breaking up the beef for Carbone Bolognese
I also separately sealed the Italian sausage (pictured) and the pork in the Dutch oven. Anneta Konstantinides/Insider
As with the ground beef, I drained the pork and sausage in the colander after they had browned in the Dutch oven. 

After I seared and drained all three meats, I made sure to season them.
Putting the beef on the side for Carbone Bolognese
I seasoned my meat with salt and set it aside. Anneta Konstantinides/Insider
I added half a tablespoon of salt and gave the meat a quick mix.

I drained the excess fat from my Dutch oven before adding the chopped garlic and thyme.
Adding garlic to Carbone Bolognese
I cooked my garlic and thyme for about two minutes. Anneta Konstantinides/Insider
I stirred my garlic and thyme constantly for around two minutes over medium-low heat. 

Then I added the chopped carrots, celery, and onion.
Adding vegetables to Carbone pasta
I turned my stove to low heat after adding my veggies. Anneta Konstantinides/Insider
I continued to stir while adding the vegetables and turned my stove to low heat. 


I seasoned my veggies with salt and cooked them over low heat for another 15 minutes, until they turned soft.
Adding the veggies to Carbone Bolognese
I continued to stir the veggies every few minutes. Anneta Konstantinides/Insider
I added half a tablespoon of salt and covered the Dutch oven while everything cooked, making sure to stir the vegetables every few minutes. 


Once the vegetables were ready, I added the tomato paste and red wine.
Adding the veggies to Carbone Bolognese
I poured the red wine into the Dutch oven and let it reduce. Anneta Konstantinides/Insider
First I added the tomato paste and increased my stove to medium heat. I stirred constantly for two minutes to lightly cook the tomato paste, making sure it had completely mixed with the veggies. 

Then I poured the red wine into the Dutch oven and let it reduce until there wasn't much liquid left. I continued to stir often to ensure I didn't burn the wine and vegetables. 


Once the wine had reduced, I added the browned meat back into the Dutch oven.
Adding meat to Carbone Bolognese
I threw my meat back into the Dutch oven once the wine had reduced. Anneta Konstantinides/Insider
I stirred everything together as delicious scents began to fill up my kitchen.

I threw in my Carbone marinara sauce, along with the chicken stock and bay leaf.
Adding Carbone sauce to Carbone Bolognese
I cooked the sauce for around 40 minutes. Anneta Konstantinides/Insider
I continued to cook everything for around 40 minutes, stirring every few minutes to stop my ingredients from sticking to the bottom of the pan. 


Then it was time for some milk.
Adding milk to Carbone Bolognese
After adding the milk, I allowed the sauce to simmer for another 10 minutes. Anneta Konstantinides/Insider
I added the milk and mixed everything together, allowing the sauce to simmer for another 10 minutes. 

As the sauce was finishing up, I threw my pasta into a pot of salted boiling water.
Boiling pasta for Carbone Bolognese
I used pappardelle per Carbone's recommendation. Anneta Konstantinides/Insider
Carbone recommends using pappardelle for his bolognese recipe.


Once the sauce was ready, I took the Dutch oven off the heat.
Simmering sauce for Carbone Bolognese
Not letting the bolognese sauce simmer too long is part of Carbone's twist on the classic dish. Anneta Konstantinides/Insider
I removed the bay leaf and added another half tablespoon of salt to season everything. 

Not letting the bolognese sauce simmer too long is part of Carbone's twist on the classic dish. 

"Usually this recipe cooks all day," he told me. "But my style — which I find to be more Italian-American than true Emilia-Romagna style — leaves the meat with more texture, which reminds me of my childhood." 


Everything was ready to go! So I dumped my pasta into the Dutch oven and mixed it with the bolognese sauce.
Addding pasta to Carbone Bolognese
I threw the pappardelle into the Dutch oven to mix everything together. Anneta Konstantinides/Insider
Pro tip: If you've made more sauce than you need for one dinner, Carbone said you can store the bolognese for up to five days in the fridge. You can also freeze it for longer; just make sure to use freezer-safe bags. 

 


The golden ribbons of pappardelle looked beautiful sitting in that rich bolognese.
Carbone Bolognese
My pot of bolognese pasta looked absolutely glorious. Anneta Konstantinides/Insider
There's just something about a heaping bowl of thick pasta noodles in an even thicker sauce on a cold night. I instantly felt soothed as I admired the big bowl of pasta in front of me. 

The bolognese had taken more time than many of the pastas I usually whip up, but it smelled absolutely glorious.


The delicious bolognese sauce made for a perfect winter pasta dish.
Carbone Bolognese
I'll definitely make Carbone's bolognese pasta again. Anneta Konstantinides/Insider
Carbone's recipe has the deep richness you'd expect from a bolognese, but still somehow feels light despite featuring three different types of meat. There's a lovely mild sweetness to the sauce, and it lifts the entire dish up. 

"The different flavors don't compete with each other, they build on each other," my mom said approvingly as she finished her plate. 

"I could really seduce a man with this recipe," my sister added as she went for seconds. 

Carbone's bolognese was so comforting and soothing on a gloomy night. It's the perfect recipe to help us get through the end of this season — plus, who doesn't love a good bowl of pasta?