Chicken Tikka Masala (cafedelites.com)

INGREDIENTS (for 5)
For the chicken marinade:
28 oz (800g) 	boneless & skinless chicken thighs cut into bite-sized
1 cup		plain yogurt
1 1/2 Tbsp	minced garlic
1 Tbsp		ginger
2 tsp		garam masala
1 tsp		turmeric
1 tsp		ground cumin
1 tsp		Kashmiri chili (or 1/2 tsp ground red chili powder)
1 tsp		salt

For the sauce:
2 Tbsp		oil
2 Tbsp		butter
2 pcs		small onions (or 1 large onion) finely diced
1 1/2 Tbsp	garlic finely grated
1 Tbsp		ginger finely grated
1 1/2 tsp	garam masala
1 1/2 tsp	ground cumin
1 tsp		turmeric powder
1 tsp		ground coriander
14 oz (400g)	tomato puree (tomato sauce/Passata)
1 tsp		Kashmiri chili (optional for color and flavor)
1 tsp		ground red chili powder (adjust to taste)
1 tsp		salt
1 1/4 cups	heavy cream (or evaporated milk for lower calories)
1 tsp		brown sugar
1/4 cup 	water if needed
4 tsp		fresh cilantro or coriander to garnish

INSTRUCTIONS
1. In a bowl, combine chicken with all of the ingredients for the chicken marinade; let marinate for 10 minutes to an hour (or overnight if time allows).
2. Heat oil in a large skillet or pot over medium-high heat. When sizzling, add chicken pieces in batches of two or three, making sure not to crowd the pan. Fry until browned for only 3 minutes on each side. Set aside and keep warm. (You will finish cooking the chicken in the sauce.)
3. Melt the butter in the same pan. Fry the onions until soft (about 3 minutes) while scraping up any browned bits stuck on the bottom of the pan. 
Add garlic and ginger and sauté for 1 minute until fragrant, then add garam masala, cumin, turmeric and coriander. Fry for about 20 seconds until fragrant, while stirring occasionally.
4. Pour in the tomato puree, chili powders and salt. Let simmer for about 10-15 minutes, stirring occasionally until sauce thickens and becomes a deep brown red colour.
5. Stir the cream and sugar through the sauce. Add the chicken and its juices back into the pan and cook for an additional 8-10 minutes until chicken is cooked through and the sauce is thick and bubbling. Pour in the water to thin out the sauce, if needed.

Garnish with cilantro (coriander) and serve with hot garlic butter rice and fresh homemade Naan bread!